 SQL Server 2022: Hardware and Software Requirements - SQL Server | Microsoft Learn Skip to main content Skip to Ask Learn chat experience This browser is no longer supported. Upgrade to Microsoft Edge to take advantage of the latest features, security updates, and technical support. Download Microsoft Edge More info about Internet Explorer and Microsoft Edge Table of contents Exit editor mode Ask Learn Ask Learn Reading mode Table of contents Read in English Add Add to Plans Edit Copy Markdown Print Note Access to this page requires authorization. You can try signing in or changing directories . Access to this page requires authorization. You can try changing directories . Hardware and software requirements for SQL Server 2022 Feedback Summarize this article for me In this article Applies to: SQL Server on Windows This article lists the minimum hardware and software requirements to install and run SQL Server 2022 (16.x) on the Windows operating system. For hardware and software requirements for other versions of SQL Server, see: SQL Server 2025 SQL Server 2019 SQL Server 2017 SQL Server on Linux Hardware requirements The following memory and processor requirements apply to all editions of SQL Server: Component Requirement Storage SQL Server requires a minimum of 6 GB of available hard drive space. Drive space requirements vary with the SQL Server components you install. For more information, see Drive space requirements later in this article. For information on supported storage types for data files, see Storage types for data files . Monitor SQL Server requires Super-VGA (800x600) or higher resolution monitor. Internet Internet functionality requires Internet access (fees can apply). Memory 1 Minimum memory - Express editions: 512 MB - All other editions: 1 GB Recommended memory - Express editions: 1 GB - All other editions: At least 4 GB, and should be increased as database size increases to ensure optimal performance. Processor Processor type x64 processor. All Intel and AMD x86-64 CPUs with up to 64 cores per NUMA node . Minimum speed 1.4 GHz Recommended speed 2.0 GHz or faster 1 The minimum memory required for installing the Data Quality Server component in Data Quality Services (DQS) is 2 GB of RAM, which is different from the SQL Server minimum memory requirement. For information about installing DQS, see Install Data Quality Services . Note Installation of SQL Server is supported on x64 processors only. Software requirements The following requirements apply to all installations: Component Requirement Operating system - Windows 10 1607 or greater - Windows Server 2016 or greater .NET Framework SQL Server 2022 (16.x) requires .NET Framework 4.7.2. Network software Supported operating systems for SQL Server have built-in network software. Named and default instances of a stand-alone installation support the following network protocols: Shared memory, Named Pipes, and TCP/IP. SQL Server Setup installs the following software components required by the product: Microsoft ODBC Driver 17 for SQL Server Microsoft OLE DB Driver for SQL Server SQL Server Setup support files Important The PolyBase feature has additional hardware and software requirements. For more information, see PolyBase overview . Operating system support The following table shows which editions of SQL Server 2022 (16.x) are compatible with which versions of Windows. You can also use the support lifecycle information to see if your version of Windows is supported. SQL Server edition: Enterprise Developer Standard Web Express Windows Server 2025 ( Support lifecycle ) Windows Server 2025 Datacenter Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Windows Server 2025 Datacenter: Azure Edition Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Windows Server 2025 Standard Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Windows Server 2025 Essentials Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Windows Server 2022 ( Support lifecycle ) Windows Server 2022 Datacenter Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Windows Server 2022 Datacenter: Azure Edition Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Windows Server 2022 Standard Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Windows Server 2022 Essentials Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Windows Server 2019 ( Support lifecycle ) Windows Server 2019 Datacenter Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Windows Server 2019 Standard Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Windows Server 2019 Essentials Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Windows Server 2016 ( Support lifecycle ) Windows Server 2016 Datacenter Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Windows Server 2016 Standard Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Windows Server 2016 Essentials Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Windows 11 IoT Enterprise No Yes Yes No Yes Windows 11 Enterprise No Yes Yes No Yes Windows 11 Professional No Yes Yes No Yes Windows 11 Home No Yes Yes No Yes Windows 10 IoT Enterprise No Yes Yes No Yes Windows 10 Enterprise No Yes Yes No Yes Windows 10 Professional No Yes Yes No Yes Windows 10 Home No Yes Yes No Yes Server Core support The following editions of Windows Server Core support installing SQL Server 2022 (16.x): Windows Server 2025 Core Windows Server 2022 Core Windows Server 2019 Core Windows Server 2016 Core For more information about installing SQL Server on Server Core, see Install SQL Server on Server Core . Cross-language support For more information about cross-language support and considerations for installing SQL Server in localized languages, see Local language versions in SQL Server . Drive space requirements During installation of SQL Server, Windows Installer creates temporary files on the system drive. Before you run Setup to install or upgrade SQL Server, verify that you have at least 6 GB of available drive space on the system drive for these files. This requirement applies even if you install SQL Server components to a non-default drive. Actual hard drive space requirements depend on your system configuration and the features that you decide to install. The following table provides drive space requirements for SQL Server components. Feature Drive space requirement Database Engine and data files, Replication, Full-Text Search, and Data Quality Services 1,480 MB Database Engine (as preceding row) with R Services (In-Database) 2,744 MB Database Engine (as preceding row) with PolyBase Query Service for External Data 4,194 MB Analysis Services and data files 698 MB Reporting Services 967 MB Microsoft R Server (Standalone) 280 MB Reporting Services - SharePoint 1,203 MB Reporting Services Add-in for SharePoint Products 325 MB Data Quality Client 121 MB Client Tools Connectivity 328 MB Integration Services 306 MB Client Components (other than SQL Server Books Online components and Integration Services tools) 445 MB Master Data Services 280 MB SQL Server Books Online Components to view and manage help content 1 27 MB All features 8,030 MB 1 The drive space requirement for downloaded Books Online content is 200 MB. Storage types for data files The supported storage types for data files are: Local disk SQL Server currently supports disk drives that have standard native sector sizes of 512 bytes and 4 KB. For more information about support for larger sector sizes and manufacturer implementations, see the section "4-KB disk sector sizes" in the white paper SQLIOBasicsCh2.doc . You can download the whitepaper from the Download section of the SQL Server I/O Basics, Chapter 2 article. If you use advanced format disks that are physically formatted with 4,096 bytes, but expose a logical sector size of 512 bytes, see SQL Server - New drives use 4K sector size . Hard drives with sector sizes larger than 4 KB might cause errors when you attempt to store SQL Server data files on them. For more information about hard drive sector-size support in SQL Server, see Troubleshoot SQL Server errors related to system disk sector size greater than 4 KB . Currently, the ForcedPhysicalSectorSizeInBytes registry key is required to successfully install SQL Server on some newer storage devices with system disk sector size greater than 4 KB. SQL Server failover cluster installation supports Local Disk only for installing the tempdb files. Ensure that the path specified for the tempdb data and log files is valid on all the cluster nodes. During failover, if the tempdb directories aren't available on the failover target node, the SQL Server resource fails to come online. Shared storage Storage Spaces Direct (S2D) SMB file share SMB storage isn't supported for Analysis Services data files for either standalone or clustered installations. Use direct attached storage, a storage area network, or S2D instead. SMB storage can be hosted by a Windows File Server or a third-party SMB storage device. If you use Windows File Server, the version should be 2008 or later. For more information about installing SQL Server using SMB file share as a storage option, see Install SQL Server with SMB fileshare storage . Install SQL Server on a domain controller For security reasons, don't install SQL Server on a domain controller. SQL Server Setup doesn't block installation on a computer that is a domain controller, but the following limitations apply: You can't run SQL Server services on a domain controller under a local service account. After you install SQL Server on a computer, you can't change the computer from a domain member to a domain controller. You must uninstall SQL Server before you change the host computer to a domain controller. After you install SQL Server on a computer, you can't change the computer from a domain controller to a domain member. You must uninstall SQL Server before you change the host computer to a domain member. SQL Server failover cluster instances aren't supported where cluster nodes are domain controllers. SQL Server isn't supported on a read-only domain controller. SQL Server Setup can't create security groups or SQL Server service accounts on a read-only domain controller. In this scenario, Setup fails. A SQL Server failover cluster instance isn't supported in an environment where only a read-only domain controller is accessible. Installation media Get relevant installation media from the following locations: SQL Server 2022 evaluation center Most recent cumulative updates Alternatively, you can deploy SQL Server on an Azure virtual machine in the Azure portal . Because of the overhead of virtualization, virtual machines can be slower than running natively. Related content Plan a SQL Server installation Security considerations for a SQL Server installation Feedback Was this page helpful? Yes No No Need help with this topic? Want to try using Ask Learn to clarify or guide you through this topic? Ask Learn Ask Learn Suggest a fix? Additional resources Last updated on 2026-07-20 In this article Was this page helpful? Need help with this topic? Want to try using Ask Learn to clarify or guide you through this topic? Ask Learn Ask Learn Suggest a fix? en-us Your Privacy Choices Theme Light Dark High contrast AI Disclaimer Previous Versions Blog Contribute Privacy Consumer Health Privacy Terms of Use Trademarks © Microsoft 2026 
