 Hardware Requirements for Windows Server | Microsoft Learn Skip to main content Skip to Ask Learn chat experience This browser is no longer supported. Upgrade to Microsoft Edge to take advantage of the latest features, security updates, and technical support. Download Microsoft Edge More info about Internet Explorer and Microsoft Edge Table of contents Exit editor mode Ask Learn Ask Learn Reading mode Table of contents Read in English Add Add to Plans Edit Copy Markdown Print Note Access to this page requires authorization. You can try signing in or changing directories . Access to this page requires authorization. You can try changing directories . Hardware requirements for Windows Server Applies to: âœ Windows Server 2025 , âœ Windows Server 2022 , âœ Windows Server 2019 , âœ Windows Server 2016 Feedback Summarize this article for me In this article To install Windows Server correctly, your computer must meet the minimum hardware requirements outlined in this article. If your computer falls short of these requirements, the product might not install properly. Actual requirements vary based on your system configuration, applications, and features that are installed. Unless otherwise specified, these minimum hardware requirements apply to all installation options (Server Core and Server with Desktop Experience) for both Windows Server Standard and Windows Server Datacenter editions. Important The highly diverse scope of potential deployments makes it unrealistic to state recommended hardware requirements that would be applicable. Consult documentation for each of the server roles you intend to deploy to learn more about the resource needs of particular server roles. For the best results, conduct test deployments to determine appropriate hardware requirements for your particular deployment scenarios. Components CPU RAM Storage Network Processor performance depends not only on the clock frequency of the processor, but also on the number of processor cores and the size of the processor cache. The following are the processor requirements. Minimum : 1.4-GHz 64-bit processor Compatible with x64 instruction set Support for NX and DEP Support for CMPXCHG16b, LAHF/SAHF, and PrefetchW instructions Support for Second Level Address Translation (EPT or NPT) Support for the SSE4.2 (Streaming SIMD Extensions 4.2) instruction set Support for the POPCNT instruction You can utilize Coreinfo , which is a tool included in Windows Sysinternals, to verify the capabilities of your CPU. The following are the estimated Random Access Memory (RAM) requirements for this product. Minimum : 2 GB for Server Core 2 GB for Server with Desktop Experience, 4 GB recommended ECC (Error Correcting Code) type or similar technology for physical host deployments Important Attempting to install Windows Server on a virtual machine configured with the minimum supported hardware parameters (1 processor core and 1,024 MB RAM) results in a failed installation. To prevent this issue, perform one of the following actions: Allocate 1,280 MB RAM or more to the virtual machine on which you intend to install this release. After setup is complete, you can change the allocation to as little as 1,024 MB RAM, depending on the actual server configuration. If you've modified the boot image for the setup with additional languages and updates, you might need to allocate more than 1,280 MB RAM in order to complete the installation. Interrupt the boot process of this release on the virtual machine with the keyboard combination SHIFT+F10 . In the command prompt that opens, use diskpart.exe to create and format an installation partition. Run wpeutil createpagefile /path=C:\pf.sys (assuming the installation partition you created was C:\). Then close the command prompt and proceed with the installation. 1 GB for Server Core 2 GB for Server with Desktop Experience ECC (Error Correcting Code) type or similar technology for physical host deployments Important Attempting to install Windows Server on a virtual machine configured with the minimum supported hardware parameters (1 processor core and 512 MB RAM) results in a failed installation. To prevent this issue, perform one of the following actions: Allocate 800 MB RAM or more to the virtual machine on which you intend to install this release. After setup is complete, you can change the allocation to as little as 800 MB RAM, depending on the actual server configuration. If you've modified the boot image for the setup with additional languages and updates, you might need to allocate more than 800 MB RAM in order to complete the installation. Interrupt the boot process of this release on the virtual machine with the keyboard combination SHIFT+F10 . In the command prompt that opens, use diskpart.exe to create and format an installation partition. Run wpeutil createpagefile /path=C:\pf.sys (assuming the installation partition you created was C:\). Then close the command prompt and proceed with the installation. Computers that run Windows Server must include a storage adapter that's compliant with the PCI Express architecture specification. Servers classified as hard disk drives must not use Parallel Advanced Technology Attachment (PATA) for persistent storage devices. Windows Server also doesn't allow PATA, Advanced Technology Attachment (ATA), Integrated Drive Electronics (IDE), and Enhanced Integrated Drive Electronic (EIDE) for boot, page, or data drives. The following are the estimated minimum disk space requirements for the system partition. Minimum : 32 GB of space Note 32 GB should be considered an absolute minimum value for successful installation. This minimum should allow you to install Windows Server 2022 or later using the Server Core installation option with the Web Services (IIS) server role. A server in Server Core mode is ~4 GB smaller than the same server using the Server with Desktop Experience installation option. The system partition needs extra space for any of the following circumstances: If you install the system over a network Computers with more than 16 GB of RAM require more disk space for paging, hibernation, and dump files Network adapters used should include these features. Minimum : An Ethernet adapter that can achieve a throughput of at least 1 gigabit per second. Compliant with the PCI Express architecture specification. A network adapter that supports network debugging (KDNet) is useful, but not a minimum requirement. A network adapter that supports the Preboot Execution Environment (PXE) is useful, but not a minimum requirement. Secured-core server requirements Secured-core is a set of integrated hardware, firmware, driver, and operating system (OS) security features that provide enhanced protection against advanced threats. Secured-core systems deliver security that starts before the OS boots and continues throughout system operation. Secured-core server features are available in Windows Server 2022 and later. To deploy a Secured-core server, your device must meet these additional requirements: DMA Remapping (IOMMU) : Support for Intel VT-d or AMD-Vi is required to ensure secure and efficient management of direct memory access (DMA) by devices, safeguarding against unauthorized memory access. Kernel DMA Protection : The system must have opt-in capability for Kernel DMA Protection, which helps prevent attacks that exploit external peripherals to gain unauthorized access. DRTM (Dynamic Root of Trust for Measurement) : This feature is needed to ensure a secure boot process by verifying the integrity of the system's startup environment, protecting against firmware-based attacks. Note In addition to the specific requirements outlined for Secured-core server, the following features must be enabled on your hardware: TPM 2.0 Secure Boot Virtualization-based Security (VBS) support, including hardware virtualization extensions To learn more, see What is Secured-core server? . Other requirements There are other hardware requirements to consider, depending on your scenario: DVD drive (if you intend to install the OS from DVD media) The following items are required only for certain features: UEFI 2.3.1c-based system and firmware that supports secure boot. Trusted Platform Module (TPM). Integrated or dedicated graphics and monitor capable of Super VGA (1024 x 768) or higher-resolution. Keyboard and mouse (or other compatible pointing device). Internet access. (Fees might apply.) Note A TPM chip is required in order to use certain features, such as BitLocker Drive Encryption . If your computer has a TPM, it must meet these requirements: Hardware-based TPMs must implement version 2.0 of the TPM specification. TPMs that implement version 2.0 must have an EK certificate that's either pre-provisioned to the TPM by the hardware vendor or capable of being retrieved by the device during the first boot. TPMs that implement version 2.0 must ship with SHA-256 PCR banks and implement PCRs 0 through 23 for SHA-256. It's acceptable to ship TPMs with a single switchable PCR bank that can be used for both SHA-1 and SHA-256 measurements. Feedback Was this page helpful? Yes No No Need help with this topic? Want to try using Ask Learn to clarify or guide you through this topic? Ask Learn Ask Learn Suggest a fix? Additional resources Last updated on 2025-07-22 In this article Was this page helpful? Need help with this topic? Want to try using Ask Learn to clarify or guide you through this topic? Ask Learn Ask Learn Suggest a fix? en-us Your Privacy Choices Theme Light Dark High contrast AI Disclaimer Previous Versions Blog Contribute Privacy Consumer Health Privacy Terms of Use Trademarks © Microsoft 2026 
